README.md, before:

# Shiny Resources

Shiny is a great tool for the working data scientist that needs to quickly build an MVP data
product, but also wants to build a long-lasting "productized" application.

The following is a compendium of books, help documents, blog posts, etc. that I've found
helpful when building Shiny apps.

As always, R Studio has a very helpful Shiny [cheat sheet](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles/cheatsheet.html).

## Foundations

* [Mastering Shiny](https://mastering-shiny.org/) is a WIP book by R hero Hadley Wickham.
* The official R Studio Shiny [documentation](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles)

### Reactive Programming

Joe Cheng's two presentations on reactivity from [Shiny DevCon 2016](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference) are excellent
places to start to learn about the programming model used by Shiny.

* [Reactivity: Part 1](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference/shinydevcon-reactivity-joecheng-part-1-1080p)
* [Reactivity: Part 2](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference/shinydevcon-reactivity-joecheng-part-2-1080p)

### Development Workflow

* The [Workflow](https://mastering-shiny.org/action-workflow.html) chapter in Hadley Wickham's
Mastering Shiny has a lot of good advice. In particular, the part of [Shiny apps in background jobs](https://github.com/sol-eng/background-jobs/tree/master/shiny-job) when using R Studio.

* A simple change that works for me is [Dean Attali](https://deanattali.com/shiny/)'s tip
to put `session$onSessionEnded(stopApp)` in your `server` function, which lets you
["[a]utomatically stop a Shiny app when closing the browser tab."](https://github.com/daattali/advanced-shiny/tree/master/auto-kill-app)

### Profiling

* [Profiling a Shiny App](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/examples.html#example-3---profiling-a-shiny-application) using [`profvis`](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/index.html)

### Shiny Modules

* [The Shiny Module Design Pattern](https://drdoane.com/the-shiny-module-design-pattern/)

## Visualization

* [Interactive Web-Based Data Visualization with R, Plotly, and Shiny](https://plotly-r.com/)
* [R Graphics Cookbook (2nd Edition)](https://r-graphics.org/)


## Building Production-Grade Shiny Apps

* [Shiny in Production with AWS](https://business-science.github.io/shiny-production-with-aws-book/) is a free book that covers "[t]he enterprise-grade process for deploying, hosting, and maintaining Shiny web applications using AWS, Docker, and git."
* [Engineering Production-Grade Shiny Apps](https://thinkr-open.github.io/building-shiny-apps-workflow/) is another WIP book by the authors of the [`{golem}`](https://thinkr-open.github.io/golem/) package.
* Joe Cheng's [Shiny in Production: Principles, Practices, and Tools](https://resources.rstudio.com/rstudio-conf-2019/shiny-in-production-principles-practices-and-tools-joe-cheng) presentation at rstudio::conf 2019

## HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

Some familiarty with web development languages will come in handy, especially when utilizing [Advanced UI](https://mastering-shiny.org/advanced-ui.html) features and [`shinyjs`](https://github.com/daattali/shinyjs).

Mozilla's [MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) has excellent documentation on these technologies written "by developers, for developers."

* [HTML: Hypertext Markup Language](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
* [CSS: Cascading Style Sheets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
* [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)


## Shiny and R Markdown

* The [Shiny Documents](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/shiny-documents.html) chapter
in [R Markdown: The Definitive Guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/) is worth a read.


## Application Layout Ideas and Inspiration

* [Application Layout Guide](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles/layout-guide.html) from the official docs
* R Studio's [Gallery](https://shiny.rstudio.com/gallery/) of Shiny applications is a
great source of ideas and inspiration when designing an app.


## General R Programming

Being fluent in R as a programming language (as opposed to a tool and interactive
environment for data analysis) goes a long way when building Shiny apps.

The [Functional Programming](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/fp.html) chapters in Hadley Wickham's
[Advanced R (2nd Edition)](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/) are good for learning an approach to
R programming that will help you write app code that follows the [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) principle.

Commit message:

Add 4 maxims of reactive programming

README.md, after:

# Shiny Resources

Shiny is a great tool for the working data scientist that needs to quickly build an MVP data
product, but also wants to build a long-lasting "productized" application.

The following is a compendium of books, help documents, blog posts, etc. that I've found
helpful when building Shiny apps.

As always, R Studio has a very helpful Shiny [cheat sheet](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles/cheatsheet.html).

## Foundations

* [Mastering Shiny](https://mastering-shiny.org/) is a WIP book by R hero Hadley Wickham.
* The official R Studio Shiny [documentation](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles)

### Reactive Programming

Remember the [4 maxims](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles/understanding-reactivity.html) of reactive programming in Shiny prepared
by Garret Grolemund:

1. R expressions update themselves, if you ask.
2. Nothing needs to happen instantly.
3. The app must do as little as possible.
4. Think carrier pigeons, not electricity.

Joe Cheng's two presentations on reactivity from [Shiny DevCon 2016](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference) are excellent
places to start to learn about the programming model used by Shiny.

* [Reactivity: Part 1](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference/shinydevcon-reactivity-joecheng-part-1-1080p)
* [Reactivity: Part 2](https://resources.rstudio.com/shiny-developer-conference/shinydevcon-reactivity-joecheng-part-2-1080p)

### Development Workflow

* The [Workflow](https://mastering-shiny.org/action-workflow.html) chapter in Hadley Wickham's
Mastering Shiny has a lot of good advice. In particular, the part of [Shiny apps in background jobs](https://github.com/sol-eng/background-jobs/tree/master/shiny-job) when using R Studio.

* A simple change that works for me is [Dean Attali](https://deanattali.com/shiny/)'s tip
to put `session$onSessionEnded(stopApp)` in your `server` function, which lets you
["[a]utomatically stop a Shiny app when closing the browser tab."](https://github.com/daattali/advanced-shiny/tree/master/auto-kill-app)

### Profiling

* [Profiling a Shiny App](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/examples.html#example-3---profiling-a-shiny-application) using [`profvis`](https://rstudio.github.io/profvis/index.html)

### Shiny Modules

* [The Shiny Module Design Pattern](https://drdoane.com/the-shiny-module-design-pattern/)

## Visualization

* [Interactive Web-Based Data Visualization with R, Plotly, and Shiny](https://plotly-r.com/)
* [R Graphics Cookbook (2nd Edition)](https://r-graphics.org/)


## Building Production-Grade Shiny Apps

* [Shiny in Production with AWS](https://business-science.github.io/shiny-production-with-aws-book/) is a free book that covers "[t]he enterprise-grade process for deploying, hosting, and maintaining Shiny web applications using AWS, Docker, and git."
* [Engineering Production-Grade Shiny Apps](https://thinkr-open.github.io/building-shiny-apps-workflow/) is another WIP book by the authors of the [`{golem}`](https://thinkr-open.github.io/golem/) package.
* Joe Cheng's [Shiny in Production: Principles, Practices, and Tools](https://resources.rstudio.com/rstudio-conf-2019/shiny-in-production-principles-practices-and-tools-joe-cheng) presentation at rstudio::conf 2019

## HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

Some familiarty with web development languages will come in handy, especially when utilizing [Advanced UI](https://mastering-shiny.org/advanced-ui.html) features and [`shinyjs`](https://github.com/daattali/shinyjs).

Mozilla's [MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) has excellent documentation on these technologies written "by developers, for developers."

* [HTML: Hypertext Markup Language](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML)
* [CSS: Cascading Style Sheets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS)
* [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)


## Shiny and R Markdown

* The [Shiny Documents](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/shiny-documents.html) chapter
in [R Markdown: The Definitive Guide](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/) is worth a read.


## Application Layout Ideas and Inspiration

* [Application Layout Guide](https://shiny.rstudio.com/articles/layout-guide.html) from the official docs
* R Studio's [Gallery](https://shiny.rstudio.com/gallery/) of Shiny applications is a
great source of ideas and inspiration when designing an app.


## General R Programming

Being fluent in R as a programming language (as opposed to a tool and interactive
environment for data analysis) goes a long way when building Shiny apps.

The [Functional Programming](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/fp.html) chapters in Hadley Wickham's
[Advanced R (2nd Edition)](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/) are good for learning an approach to
R programming that will help you write app code that follows the [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself) principle.
